# Youtube-Big-Data-Analytics
YouTube is a free video sharing website that makes it easy to watch online videos. You can even create and upload your own videos to share with others. We live today in a digital world a tremendous amount of data is generated by each digital service we use. This vast amount of data generated is called Big Data. YouTube is one of the best examples of services that produce a massive amount of data in a brief period. We demonstrate how we can extract insightful information from YouTube dataset using Big Data Analytics. Data extraction of a significant amount of data is done using Hadoop and MapReduce to measure performance. Hadoop is a system that offers consistent memory. Storage is provided by HDFS (Hadoop Distributed File System) and MapReduce analysis. MapReduce is a programming model and a corresponding implementation for processing large data sets. Apache Hive is a data warehouse software project built on top of Apache Hadoop for providing data query and analysis. Hive gives an SQL-like interface to query data stored in various databases and file systems that integrate with Hadoop. Power BI is a business analytics service by Microsoft. It aims to provide interactive visualizations and business intelligence capabilities with an interface simple enough for end users to create their own reports and dashboards. It is part of the Microsoft Power Platform. These are the technologies used for the same.

Co-creaters: Taha Bohra, Shreyan Yoge and Sumedh Kamble
